--- PAGE 1 ---
Hybrid Map-Based Path Planning for Robot Navigation
in Unstructured Environments
Jiayang Liu Xieyuanli Chen Junhao Xiao ∗ Sichao Lin Zhiqiang Zheng Huimin Lu ∗
Abstract— Fast and accurate path planning is important for
ground robots to achieve safe and efﬁcient autonomous navi-
gation in unstructured outdoor environments. However, most
existing methods exploiting either 2D or 2.5D maps struggle to
balance the efﬁciency and safety for ground robots navigating
in such challenging scenarios. In this paper, we propose a
novel hybrid map representation by fusing a 2D grid and a
2.5D digital elevation map. Based on it, a novel path planning
method is proposed, which considers the robot poses during
traversability estimation. By doing so, our method explicitly
takes safety as a planning constraint enabling robots to navigate
unstructured environments smoothly. The proposed approach
has been evaluated on both simulated datasets and a real robot
platform. The experimental results demonstrate the efﬁciency
and effectiveness of the proposed method. Compared to state-
of-the-art baseline methods, the proposed approach consistently
generates safer and easier paths for the robot in different
unstructured outdoor environments. The implementation of
our method is publicly available at https://github.com/
nubot-nudt/T-Hybrid-planner .
I. I NTRODUCTION
Safe and efﬁcient autonomous navigation is essential for
ground robots operating in challenging unstructured outdoor
environments. Path planning is a key component of an au-
tonomous navigation system. In unstructured environments,
robots have to deal with not only common obstacles, such as
trees and rocks, but also the challenges of special terrains,
such as steep slopes and hollows. In such cases, path plan-
ning should consider both terrain constraints and kinematics
constraints of the robot.
Several studies based on 2D maps have been proposed
for outdoor path planning [1]–[3]. In those approaches, each
perceived grid can only be classiﬁed as either occupied or
free; in other words, such binary classiﬁcation lacks of eval-
uating the underlay traversability cost. As a result, such 2D
map-based methods are weak in describing terrain, therefore
may introduce difﬁculties for robot path following. On the
other hand, digital elevation maps (DEMs) [4] generally have
terrain information such as height, roughness, and normal
vectors. Therefore, the generated paths in 2.5D DEMs [5] are
safer and easier to pass than the 2D competitors. However,
as DEMs cannot reasonably represent overhanging structures
such as trees and bridges, it is time-consuming to calculate
the traversability of 2.5D terrain during online navigation.
All authors are with the College of Intelligence Science and Technology,
National University of Defense Technology, Changsha, China.
∗corresponding authors, junhao.xiao@ieee.org, lhmnew@nudt.edu.cn
This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation of
China under Grant U1913202, and U22A200600, as well as Major Project
of Natural Science Foundation of Hunan Province under Grant 2021JC0004.
Fig. 1: Comparison of path planning in a Mars-like surface dataset.
The color map is a hybrid map generated by our terrain assessment.
The color represents traversability, which gradually increases from
warm to cool colors. The red-colored area represents impassable
2D map areas, and the rest belongs to the 2.5D map. The black
path is generated by our method, while the yellow and green paths
are from a 2D map-based and a 2.5D map-based baseline methods,
respectively. The corresponding path lengths are listed below. As
can be seen, our method generates a shorter path across safer areas.
To tackle the problems mentioned above, in this paper, we
propose a novel path-planning method in unstructured out-
door environments. More speciﬁcally, a sing-layer dynamic
voxel grid is employed to segment the raw point clouds,
where the absolutely impassable areas are marked as occu-
pied. The remaining areas are further modelled in the 2.5D
layer. Afterwards, the traversability of each DEM grid is
calucated according to its roughness and the robot’s possible
orientation. By considering the cost of terrain traversability
in path planning, a shorter and safer path can be eventually
generated, as shown in Fig. 1. The proposed method has been
evaluated based on a publicly available dataset and our real
ground robot platform. The experimental results show that
our method outperforms state-of-the-art planning methods in
unstructured outdoor environments.
In sum, the contributions of our methods are threefold: (i)
Our method assesses various complex terrain accurately and
creates 2D+2.5D hybrid map representations possessing the
advantages of 2D and 2.5D maps; (ii) A novel path planning
method T-Hybrid A* has been proposed, which generates
better and safer paths compared to existing state-of-the-art
methods; (iii) A novel navigation method has been proposed
for ground robots based on the proposed hybrid map and
T-Hybrid A*, enabling our real robot to navigate safely and
efﬁciently in real unstructured terrains.
arXiv:2303.05304v1  [cs.RO]  9 Mar 2023
--- PAGE 2 ---
II. R ELATED WORK
For ground mobile robots working in unstructured outdoor
environments, representing the terrain traversability in a
map is a key issue of path planning [6]. Existing map
representations for outdoor path planning mainly include four
different groups: 2D grid map [2], 2.5D elevation maps [7],
3D voxel grids [8], and point cloud maps [9].
Occupancy Grid Map is a frequently used 2D map rep-
resentation for path planning. According to the occupancy
probability, the detected grids are divided into occupied or
free grids, while the undetected grids are represented as
unknown grids [10]. In the unstructured outdoor environ-
ment, obstacle areas such as bumps, pits, ramps, and gullies
are considered, and the occupied grid map is generated by
geometric or numerical calculation for path planning [11].
Demonstration learning has been employed to calculate ter-
rain costs in complex unstructured terrains in [12], where D*
[1] is used for path planning. Overby et al. [13] exploited a
buffer combined obstacle detection with a terrain gradient
map to generate a 2D grid map, then used a multi-step
path planning method to realize autonomous navigation in
unknown and off-road environments. Hybrid A* is used
for path planning on a 2D occupancy grid map in [14].
Hine et al. [15] constructed virtual grids and assigned certain
traversability values to virtual areas. Then they projected the
3D grids to the 2D plane, and planned a path using Hybrid
A*. The construction of 2D grid maps is fast, and the terrain
traversability can be queried quickly during path planning.
However, their simplicity also makes it hard to evaluate
whether a robot will be dangerous in unstructured outdoor
environments, such as small bumps and slopes (the robot
can cross such non-obstacle areas in a unique orientation),
thus unreliable for a robot navigating in unstructured outdoor
terrains.
As 3D maps, both raw point clouds and 3D voxel grids
can describe the terrain more comprehensively than 2D maps.
The point clouds are the raw sensor data format of a Lidar
sensor, which can describe the environment information rela-
tively densely based on robotic mapping techniques. Reina et
al. [16] proposed an uneven point descriptor to analyze the
local point cloud normal vector, calculated the traversability
index of the region, and distinguished the traversable region
from the impenetrable region. Kr ¨usi et al. [17] carried out
path planning in an unstructured outdoor environment based
on a sampling method directly on the raw point clouds.
Liu [18] used a tensor voting framework to plan a safe
path on point cloud online. However, incorporating terrain
assessment into path planning will increase the planning
time signiﬁcantly in large-scale outdoor environments due
to the huge amount of point cloud data. Octomap [19] is
a common 3D voxel grid representation that subdivides the
3D space selectively according to the probability distribution
of obstacles. It is very important for path planning of
aerial robots [20], robot arm motion planning [21], and 3D
path planning of ground robots in multi-layer environments.
Hertl et al. [22] extracted drivable surfaces on 3D terrain
octmap and used motion primitives on surface cells to realize
path planning for the tracked robot in a 3D complex environ-
ment. A traversability map is generated based on octomap,
which is then employed for safe and efﬁcient path planning
[23]. However, similar to 3D point cloud maps, octomap has
large storage space for terrain information, so it is slow to
query terrain information during path planning. Besides, the
ground robot does not need to navigate through multi-layer
structures in an unstructured outdoor environment. Therefore,
using 3D maps for path planning in unstructured outdoor
terrain is inefﬁcient.
The digital elevation map is a 2.5D form of terrain
representation, which realizes the digital simulation of terrain
through limited elevation data. Compared with a 3D grid
map, an elevation map is equivalent to the compression of
terrain, which is more conducive to efﬁcient path planning in
the outdoor environment. 2.5D digital elevation map usually
contains multi-level terrain information, such as 2D position,
slope, roughness, normal vector, and other information. It
has been well applied in the path planning of complex
outdoor terrain. Sing et al. [24] rasterized the terrain data
collected by the stereo camera, calculated the orientation
angle and roughness to generate an accessible grid map, and
used D* global planner and arc sampling local planner to
navigate on the Martian terrain. Dail et al. [25] used elevation
maps to plan the global guidance route in the off-road
environment and provided subpoints for real-time reactive
obstacle avoidance planning. Fan et al. [26] established a
2.5D traversable risk map by considering the uncertainty
factors. They used an efﬁcient MPC framework to solve the
optimal control problem of nonconvex constraints in complex
terrain. Fankhauser et al. [27] opened source a tool kit for
calculating elevation maps. They estimated traversability by
calculating each terrain grid’s height, roughness, slope, and
other information, then used the RRT algorithm to plan a
safe path for legged robots. However, the construction of
elevation maps is complicated. Robots do not need elevation
information in complex unstructured outdoor terrain with
steep slopes, gullies, stone piers, and other impassable areas,
so the navigation in 2D map is faster and more convenient.
To fuse the advantages of 2D maps and 2.5D maps, this
paper proposed a novel hybrid map representation. Firstly,
the absolutely impassable areas are only represented in 2D,
where the rest are further processed to build a 2.5D map.
During path planning, impassable regions are not considered.
In other words, the robot’s safety is only evaluated in the
2.5D map. Therefore, the computation cost of path planning
is reduced. At the same time, a T-Hybrid A* algorithm is
proposed for path planning on the hybrid map considering
terrain constraints.
III. O UR APPROACH
Fig. 2 shows the architecture of the proposed path-
planning approach. As shown in the ﬁgure, the point cloud
is segmented with dynamic voxel grids, whereafter the
overhanging structure such as trees are ﬁltered (see Sec. III-
A). Afterwards, a two-phase terrain assessment is carried
--- PAGE 3 ---
Fig. 2: Pipeline overview of our path planning method. It ﬁrst
uses the dynamic voxel grids to segment the raw point clouds,
then the traversability assessor calculates terrain traversability from
the segmented point clouds and generates a hybrid map. In path
planning, our terrain assessment method constantly calculates the
3D orientation of the robot projected on the terrain constantly. In
the end, taking the start pose, goal pose, and hybrid map as inputs,
the ﬁnal safe path is generated by our T-Hybrid A* algorithm.
out. In the ﬁrst phase, each voxel grid is ﬁtted with a local
plane, which is then employed to calculate the roughness
and traversability of the terrain. As a result, a hybrid map
can be built (see Sec. III-B). In the second phase, the robot’s
3D orientation is calculated in SO(3). In the end, the real
terrain traversability is calculated according to the roughness,
pitch angle, and roll angle of the robot, which are exploited
by our proposed T-Hybrid A* to generate safe and efﬁcient
paths (see Sec. III-C).
A. Point Cloud Segmentation
Due to a large amount of point cloud data, the speed of
terrain assessment is greatly affected. The general practice is
to use a voxel grid ﬁlter to reduce the point cloud density.
However, it cannot segment the overhanging structures such
as trees and bridges reasonably [28]. We therefore employ
the dynamic voxel grid that extracts only the ground surface
points affecting the robot’s movement. In this case, the
overhanging structures are ignored during terrain assessment,
where the computation cost is reduced. As shown in Fig. 3,
the blue point cloud represents a small slope. In point cloud
segmentation, the size of the black voxel grid needs to cover
the whole robot, which can be calculated by:
Gl =Gw =
√
R2
l +R2w, (1)
Gh =Gl tanρmax, (2)
where Gl, Gw, and Gh are the length, width, and height of
the voxel grid. Rl and Rw are the length and width of the
robot, and ρmax is the maximum slope that the robot can
pass through. As the area with a slope higher than ρmax is
impassable for the robot, the height of the voxel grid is set
to Gh. As a result, the overhanging structures are excluded
from the voxel grids.
The height of the geometric center ˜p of each voxel grid
changes with the ground surface. Therefore, the dynamic
voxel grids can model the terrain with only single-layer grids,
thus removing the effect of overhanging structures on terrain
traversability analysis. At the same time, less point cloud data
can improve the efﬁciency of terrain evaluation.
B. Terrain Assessment
For ground mobile robots, excessive pitch angle and roll
angle may cause the robot to overturn. Therefore, terrain
traversability analysis should consider the 3D orientation of
the robot at each footprint. In this case, a local plane is ﬁtted
in each voxel grid, where the robot is projected on. After the
projection, the robot orientation can be calculated, assuming
the robot is attached to such a local plane.
To improve the accuracy of terrain evaluation while en-
suring the evaluation speed, we use multi-resolution voxel
grids. Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram for calculating terrain
roughness. We ﬁrst ﬁt a local plane according to the points
in the large black voxel grid. The geometry centroid ˜p and
covariance matrix C in each voxel grid is calculated by
˜p = 1
N
N∑
k=1
pk, (3)
C =
N∑
k=1
(pk− ˜p)(pk− ˜p)T, (4)
where N is the size of point clouds in the grid. Principal
component analysis (PCA) [29] is employed to calculate the
minimum eigenvector as plane normal vector v. The slope
ρ is calculated according to the acute angle between v and
the horizontal plane. If ρ>ρ max, the whole area is marked
as 2D obstacle map. This method can detect steep slopes,
walls, and so on. Otherwise, the point clouds in the large
voxel grid are subdivided by the blue small voxel grid, and
the resolution of the small voxel grid is set empirically. If the
resolution is too small, there may be no point clouds within
the small voxel grid, which is inefﬁcient. Conversely, terrain
information is inaccurately represented if the resolution is
too large.
The maximum height difference h of point in the small
voxel is calculated by
h = max
i=1,2,...n
(di)− min
j=1,2,...n
(dj), (5)
where di is the distance from pi to the ﬁtted plane, and
n is the number of points in the small voxel grid. The
distances are signed so that pits and bumps can be detected.
Considering the obstacle-crossing ability of the robot, the
maximum height difference threshold is set to hmax. If
h > hmax, the area of the small voxel grid is stored as
a 2D obstacle map containing only one layer of information
with zero static traversability. Otherwise, it is stored as a
2.5D DEM with multi-layer terrain information. Then, as
shown in Fig. 5, the hybrid map is generated. The obstacle
areas belong to the 2D map with only one layer of static
traversability information, and the areas are marked in red
with zero traversability. The other areas belong to 2.5D
DEM, and our DEM includes the normal vector of the
ﬁtted plane, the terrain roughness rsum, and static terrain
--- PAGE 4 ---
Fig. 3: Point cloud segmentation based on dynamic voxel grids.
The height of the center point ˜p of each voxel grid changes with
the height of the ground surface.
Fig. 4: Schematic diagram of terrain roughness calculation. The
red point clouds are identiﬁed as obstacles. The black rectangle is
a large voxel grid, while the blue rectangles are small. The green
dotted line in the ﬁgure represents the ﬁtted plane.
traversability τ ∈ [0, 1]. rsum is the sum of the absolute
values of residuals in the small voxel grid as
rsum =
n∑
k=1
|dk|. (6)
In the area where static traversability τ is zero, the robot
cannot pass through in any orientation. Otherwise, τ is
calculated based on roughness and slope as
τ = 1−Wr
rsum
rmax
−Wρ
ρ
ρmax
, (7)
where Wr and Wρ are both weighting coefﬁcients.
In the path planning process, the static traversability layer
is used to quickly remove impassable nodes. Then the real
terrain traversability will be calculated according to the
terrain roughness and the robot’s 3D orientation projected
on the ground.
C. T-Hybrid A*
After generating the hybrid map with traversability infor-
mation of the unstructured environment, we then modify the
Hybrid A* algorithm by using traversability as an extra safety
constraint.
Hybrid A* algorithm [30] considers kinematic constraints
of the robot, and thus the planned path is easier for the
Fig. 5: Hybrid map with multiple layers of information. From top
to bottom of the picture are the normal vector layer, the roughness
layer, and the static traversability layer, respectively. The red blocks
of static traversability layer represent the obstacles and are stored as
the 2D map. The white blocks of normal vector layer and roughness
layer indicate areas where there is no normal vector or roughness
information, meaning that the 2D map only has single-layer static
traversability information.
robot to track than A* algorithm [31]. However, for robots
in unstructured outdoor environments with slopes and other
rough terrains, the path planned by Hybrid A* may pass
through low-traversability areas. In this case, the robot may
face difﬁculties or even the risk of capsizing. To deal with
this problem, we propose T-Hybrid A*, where the terrain
traversability is induced as a new safety constraint.
For a given hybrid map, start pose, and goal pose in
the SE (2), a safe path is generated by T-Hybrid A*. In
node expansion, if the child node is located on the 2D
map, it would be directly deleted since its corresponding
static traversability is zero. Otherwise, the child node will
be queried on the 2.5D map, wherein the robot orientation
on the terrain is calculated according to its heading angle.
Assuming the node is [x,y,θ ] ∈ SE (2), the ﬁtted plane
normal vector v can be queried according to the node
position. The node heading angle is mapped to the orientation
RMR in global map frame M by
RMR = [ ˆxMR ˆyMR ˆzMR ] =
[ cosθ sinθ 0
− sinθ cosθ 0
0 0 1
]
,
(8)
where frame R is parallel to the gravity coordinate frame,
and [ˆxMR ˆyMR ˆzMR ] is the vector representation of
orientation. v is the z-axis of projection frame ˜R. Due to
the condition of zero yaw between RMR and the robot’s
projection orientation RM ˜R, the x-axis of frame ˜R is per-
pendicular to the y-axis of frame R. Therefore, RG ˜R can be
calculated by the following formula:
ˆxM ˜R = ˆyMR× v
∥ˆyMR× v∥ (9)
RM ˜R = [ ˆxM ˜R v× ˆxM ˜R v] (10)
We then transform the rotation matrix to Euler angles in
Z-Y-X rotation order to obtain the robot’s roll angle and
pitch angle [θx,θy,θz]. The real terrain traversability ˜τ is
calculated from the terrain roughness, the real pitch and the
--- PAGE 5 ---
Fig. 6: Our real robot platform works in unstructured terrain. The
robot is equipped with an i5 processor, a Velodyne 16 Lidar sensor,
and a fusion positioning system.
roll angle of the robot as
˜τ = 1−wr
rsum
rmax
−wθx
|θx|
θxmax
−wθy max( θy
θymin
, θy
θymax
),
(11)
where each item is normalized. rmax and θxmax are max
roughness and roll angle safety threshold, respectively. Con-
sidering the asymmetry between the front and the back of the
robot, the safety value of the robot going uphill and downhill
is different, so there are two different limit values ( θymin
and θymax) for the pitch. During path planning, path nodes
expand forward according to Ackerman kinematic model,
and the node cost f (si+1) is calculated by
f (si+1) =
{
∞ do = 0 or ˜τ = 0
f (si) +ktti+1 +k˜τ ˜τ others, (12)
wheredo is the distance to the nearest obstacle in conﬁgura-
tion space. Ifdo or terrain traversability ˜τ is 0, the cost of the
node will be inﬁnite. Otherwise, the cost of the current node
is the sum of the cost of the parent node f (si), turning cost
ti+1, and traversability cost ˜τ. kt and k˜τ are proportional
factors. Through the graph search method, a safe path can
be efﬁciently found in the unstructured outdoor environment.
IV. E XPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
The main focus of this work is a path-planning method
for the ground robot in unstructured outdoor environments.
Our method builds a 2D and 2.5D fused map and leverages
a novel path planning to generate a short and safe path in
less time.
Experiments have been conducted in both simulator and
real outdoor unstructured terrains to evaluate the proposed
method, and the results can support our key claims, which
are: (i) Our method can assess various complex terrain
accurately, and create a hybrid map representation possessing
the advantages of 2D and 2.5D maps. (ii) Our proposed path
planning method based on our hybrid map generates safer
paths than that based on the 2D map. Moreover, our method
takes less time and generates shorter paths than the 2.5D-
based method; (iii) Our path planning method can be used
on the physical robot to navigate in unstructured outdoor
environments.
TABLE I: Parameters in the Experiments
parameter value parameter value
Rl 0.7 m θxmax 0.18 rad
Rw 0.5 m θymin -0.3 rad
ρmax 0.3 rad θymax 0.25 rad
hmax 0.1 m wθx 0.4
Wr 0.5 wθy 0.4
Wρ 0.5 kt 1.1
wr 0.3 k˜τ 2.0
(a)
 (b)
(c)
 (d)
Fig. 7: Terrain assessment of Mars-like terrain data set based on
three maps. (a) is the aerial view of Mars-like terrain, and the terrain
size is 120m × 60m. (b) is the hybrid map generated by our terrain
assessment algorithm, and its color represents static traversability.
The traversability gradually increases when the color ranges from
warm to cool. The red color represents the impassable area, which
is stored as the 2D map, and the rest areas are stored as the 2.5D
map. (c) and (d) are 2.5D elevation map and 2D occupancy grid
map respectively.
A. Implementation Details and Experimental Setup
The raw 3D point cloud map is constructed using a SLAM
system [32], and the elevation map is generated following
Fankhauser’s method et al. [27]. The elevation map is then
transformed into a 2.5D digital elevation map with a ﬁtted
plane normal vector, roughness, and static traversability.
Our terrain assessment method subsequently generates a
hybrid map, Finally, the three kinds of map information are
combined with T-Hybrid A* for path planning. The map
resolution and threshold are uniﬁed according to the robot
performance, and all parameters are shown in Tab. I.
In the following sections, we will compare our method
against two different baseline methods: a 2D map-based
method [33] and a 2.5D map-based method [5], using both
the Canadian Mars Simulation surface dataset [34] and the
physical robot working in real outdoor unstructured terrains.
The evaluation metrics include the path length, safety cost,
and the planning time. As shown in Fig. 6, our outdoor robot
is with the Ackerman-like kinematic mode, and its size is
0.7m× 0.5m× 0.5m. The robot is equipped with an i5
processor, a Velodyne 16 Lidar sensor, and a GNSS-IMU
fusion positioning system. The robot has a certain ability to
cross 0.1m bumps,−0.1m pits, and 20◦ slopes.
--- PAGE 6 ---
(a)
 (b)
 (c)
Fig. 8: Comparative analysis of 50 random experiments on the dataset, and the ordinate of each picture represents the distribution
probability. (a) represents the comparison of three methods in the planned path length. At the same time, the mean value of each method
is indicated in the upper right corner of the image. Similarly, (b) is the total safety cost distribution. In order to eliminate the inﬂuence
of path length on the total safety cost, we calculate the average value of the safety as shown in (c).
Fig. 9: The time cost distribution of 50 path planning experiments
on the Mars-like terrain dataset. Each red dot represents a pair of
starting and ending points, the abscissa of this dot represents the
time cost of our path planning method under this pair of points,
and the ordinate is the time cost of planning based on 2.5D map.
B. Qualitative Experiment on Publicly Available Dataset
We ﬁrst show the experimental results on the publicly
available Canadian Planetary Emulation Terrain 3D mapping
dataset [34]. Fig. 7(a) shows the overview of the simulated
scenario. It is a 120m× 60m unstructured outdoor envi-
ronment with pits, stone bumps, slopes, and other complex
terrains. The hybrid map, 2.5D digital elevation map, and
2D occupancy grid map are generated by our terrain as-
sessment method, Fankhauser’s terrain assessment methods,
respectively. Fig. 7(b) - Fig. 7(d) show different maps with a
uniform resolution of 0.5m. The color of the map in Fig. 7(b)
represents the static terrain traversability τ, the red is the
absolutely impassable 2D map area, while the rest areas are
2.5D areas, and with the color changes from warm to cool,
the static terrain traversability gradually increases.
We randomly sample positions in the map with a 40m
distance between the start and goal points, and discard any
impassable start or goal points. Our T-Hybrid A* carries out
50 path planning experiments on three kinds of maps, and
we analyzes the path length, safety cost, and planning time,
respectively. The safety cost is measured by the hazard value,
which is a synthesis of the robot’s pitch angle, roll angle, and
terrain roughness obtained from all path points. A higher
hazard value indicates lower safety. Note that path planning
based on the 2D map does not consider the robot’s pose,
which sacriﬁces the safety in exchange for a short planning
time. Therefore, in terms of planning time, we only compared
the method based on the 2.5D map with our method.
The evaluation results of three different setups are shown
in Fig. 8. Fig. 8(a) illustrates the distribution of path lengths
planned by three methods, and the ordinates are their re-
spective distribution probabilities. As can be seen, half of
the paths planned based on 2D maps are failed and cannot
be safely tracked, because the terrain roughness or robot
projection orientation at some of the path points exceeds
the corresponding safety thresholds. Meanwhile, the paths
generated by our method and the 2.5D-based method can
be safely tracked, while ours are shorter than those of 2.5D
method. The safety analysis of generated paths in Fig. 8(b)
shows that our paths are the safest, while the paths generated
by the 2D-based method are the most impassable. Further-
more, in addition to the total safety cost, we also provide the
corresponding mean value in Fig. 8(c). Compared to methods
based on the 2D map and 2.5D map-based methods, our
planning method has better results in path length and safety.
To further compare our method with the 2.5D-based method,
we provide a time cost analysis in Fig. 9, where each red
dot represents a pair of ﬁxed starting point and goal point.
The abscissa of the dot represents the time cost of our path
planning method under this pair of points, and the ordinate
is the time cost of planning based 2.5D map. The dashed
line clearly illustrates that our method exhibits a statistically
signiﬁcant improvement over the 2.5D-based path-planning
approach in terms of time cost.
C. Ground Vehicle Physical Experiment
When the robot moves in unstructured outdoor environ-
ments, in addition to avoiding obstacles, it should try to
--- PAGE 7 ---
(a)
 (b)
(c)
 (d)
Fig. 10: Path planning with three different methods in unstructured outdoor terrains. (a) shows the actual rough terrain. On the right side
of the image is a small slope. (b) shows a long slope, and there is a big stone at the right top of the slope. (c) and (d) are hybrid maps
of the above terrains. It can be seen from the ﬁgure that the static traversability of the slope area is lower in green, while the ﬂat area is
blue. All three paths are drawn in our hybrid map, and the black path is the resulting planning based on our hybrid map, while the green
and yellow paths are generated based on the 2.5D map and 2D map, respectively.
TABLE II: Analysis of navigation results in outdoor rough areas
Methods Time(s) Length(m) Roll cost Pitch cost Failure rate
Terrain 1
2D - - 411.685 71.744 0.319
2.5D 3.359 13.139 145.462 51.526 0.000
Ours 2.738 12.290 130.693 50.079 0.000
Terrain 2
2D - - - - -
2.5D 0.954 51.081 537.349 337.115 0.000
Ours 0.675 50.255 464.061 325.798 0.000
avoid rough and slope areas. At the same time, if the robot
has to pass a long slope, it will be safer for the robot to
pass in forward orientations. In order to verify the actual
effect of our method, we conducted experiments on a real
physical robot. We conducted navigation experiments in a
rough and un-ﬂat terrain 1 (see Fig. 10(a)) and a long slope
terrain 2 (see Fig. 10(b)). Fig. 10(c) and Fig. 10(d) show the
path planning results visualized on the hybrid maps generated
using our terrain traversability assessment. As can be seen,
the static traversability of the long slope area is lower in
green color, while the ﬂat area is blue. We set a uniﬁed start
pose and target pose. The yellow, green, and black paths
are generated based on 2D, 2.5D, and our hybrid map. As
shown in Fig. 10(c), our path is the safest for avoiding the
sloping area on the right of terrain 1. Besides, our path is
shorter than 2.5D’s. When the robot has to cross a long
slope as shown in Fig. 10(b), since our method considers
the robot’s 3D orientation, our path crosses the slope in
the forward direction. On the contrary, the 2D-based method
failed because its path crosses the red obstacle area.
The same MPC algorithm is exploited for the robot to
track the above different paths. The quantitative comparison
results are shown in Tab. II. Roll cost and Pitch cost represent
the sum of the normalized roll angle and normalized pitch
angle in the path-tracking process. Our path consists of many
path points. To ensure the robot’s safety, we treat waypoints
exceeding the corresponding parameter’s threshold as failure
points. These parameters include terrain roughness, pitch
angle, and roll angle of the robot on this terrain. The failure
rate is the ratio of failure points at all path points.
Our method outperforms other methods in terms of both
efﬁciency and safety for the above-valuated terrains. Specif-
ically, in Terrain 1, the 2D-based path planning method
passes through the slope area resulting in the highest robot
orientation changes, while our method exhibits the lowest roll
angle changes, indicating a signiﬁcant advantage over other
baseline methods. In Terrain 2, the 2D-based method fails
to plan a feasible path as it crosses an obstacle and passes
through a long slope in a poor orientation. In contrast, our
method results in the minimum pitch and roll angle changes
during the path tracking process. Terrain 1 is generally
rougher and more complex than Terrain 2, thus requiring
--- PAGE 8 ---
more iterations in path planning. Our method achieves lower
planning time consumption and higher safety scores than the
2.5D-based method in both terrains.
V. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we presented a novel approach to efﬁciently
plan a safe path for the ground robot in unstructured outdoor
environments. To deal with overhanging structures, dynamic
voxel grids have been employed to segment the raw point
clouds. Afterwards, a hybrid map is generated combining
the advantages of 2D occupancy grid map and 2.5D digital
elevation map. Based on the hybrid map, we proposed a
novel path planning algorithm called T-Hybrid A*, which
considers the robot’s kinematics, obstacle distance, and ter-
rain traversability and efﬁciently together. As a result, the
robot can navigate in unstructured outdoor environments with
slopes, bumps, and pits. Our approach has been evaluated on
a simulated dataset and a real robot platform in unstructured
environments. We also provided comparisons against other
existing techniques and supported all claims made in this
paper. The experiments suggest that the path planned by our
method is safer than the path planned based on 2D map,
shorter and less time-consuming than 2.5D’s. In the future,
we will focus on path planning at larger outdoor unstructured
environments.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Stentz. Optimal and efﬁcient path planning for partially-known
environments. Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics & Automation
(ICRA), 1994.
[2] A. Elfes. Using occupancy grids for mobile robot perception and
navigation. Computer, 22:46–57, 1989.
[3] J. Wen, X. Zhang, Q. Bi, Z. Pan, Y . Feng, J. Yuan, and Y . Fang.
Mrpb 1.0: A uniﬁed benchmark for the evaluation of mobile robot
local planning approaches. Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics
& Automation (ICRA) , 2020.
[4] P. Fankhauser, M. Bloesch, C. Gehring, M. Hutter, and R. Siegwart.
Robot-centric elevation mapping with uncertainty estimates. In Mobile
Service Robotics, pages 433–440. 2014.
[5] M. Wermelinger, P. Fankhauser, R. Diethelm, P. Kr ¨usi, R. Siegwart,
and M. Hutter. Navigation planning for legged robots in challenging
terrain. Proc. of the IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots and
Systems (IROS), 2016.
[6] P. Papadakis. Terrain traversability analysis methods for unmanned
ground vehicles: A survey. Engineering Applications of Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, 26(4):1373–1385, 2013.
[7] S. Choi, P. Jaehyun, L. Eulgyoon, and W. Yu. Global path planning on
uneven elevation maps. In Proc. of Intl. Conf. on Ubiquitous Robots
and Ambient Intelligence (URAI) , 2012.
[8] K. M. Wurm, A. Hornung, M. Bennewitz, C. Stachniss, and W. Bur-
gard. Octomap: A probabilistic, ﬂexible, and compact 3d map
representation for robotic systems. In Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on
Robotics & Automation (ICRA) , 2010.
[9] F. Gao, W. Wu, W. Gao, and S. Shen. Flying on point clouds: Online
trajectory generation and autonomous navigation for quadrotors in
cluttered environments. Journal of Field Robotics (JFR) , 36(4):710–
733, 2019.
[10] A. Elfes. Occupancy grids: A stochastic spatial representation for
active robot perception. In Proc. of the Conf. on Uncertainty in
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (UAI) , 1990.
[11] T. Guan, D. Kothandaraman, R. Chandra, A. J. Sathyamoorthy,
K. Weerakoon, and D. Manocha. Ga-nav: Efﬁcient terrain segmenta-
tion for robot navigation in unstructured outdoor environments. IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L) , 7:8138–8145, 2021.
[12] D. Silver, J. A. Bagnell, and A. Stentz. Learning from demonstration
for autonomous navigation in complex unstructured terrain. Intl. Jour-
nal of Robotics Research (IJRR) , 29:1565 – 1592, 2010.
[13] T. Overbye and S. Saripalli. Fast local planning and mapping in
unknown off-road terrain. Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics
& Automation (ICRA) , 2020.
[14] T. Guan, Z. He, and R. Song. Tns: Terrain traversability mapping
and navigation system for autonomous excavators. Proc. of Robotics:
Science and Systems (RSS) , 2021.
[15] T. Hines, K. Stepanas, F. Talbot, I. Sa, J. Lewis, E. Hernandez,
N. Kottege, and N. Hudson. Virtual surfaces and attitude aware
planning and behaviours for negative obstacle navigation. IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L) , 6(2):4048–4055, 2021.
[16] G. Reina, M. Bellone, L. Spedicato, and N. I. Giannoccaro. 3d
traversability awareness for rough terrain mobile robots. Sensor
Review, 34:220–232, 2014.
[17] P. Kr ¨usi, P. Furgale, M. Bosse, and R. Siegwart. Driving on point
clouds: Motion planning, trajectory optimization, and terrain assess-
ment in generic nonplanar environments. Journal of Field Robotics
(JFR), 34(5):940–984, 2017.
[18] M. Liu. Robotic online path planning on point cloud. IEEE Trans. on
Cybernetics, 46(5):1217–1228, 2016.
[19] A. Hornung, K. M. Wurm, M. Bennewitz, C. Stachniss, and W. Bur-
gard. Octomap: an efﬁcient probabilistic 3d mapping framework based
on octrees. Autonomous Robots, 34:189–206, 2013.
[20] T. Dang, S. Khattak, F. Mascarich, and K. Alexis. Explore locally,
plan globally: A path planning framework for autonomous robotic
exploration in subterranean environments. In Proc. of the Int. Conf. on
Advanced Robotics (ICAR) , 2019.
[21] Y . Wang, S. James, E. K. Stathopoulou, C. Beltr ´an-Gonz´alez, Y . Kon-
ishi, and A. D. Bue. Autonomous 3-d reconstruction, mapping, and
exploration of indoor environments with a robotic arm. IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters (RA-L) , 4:3340–3347, 2019.
[22] A. Hertle and C. Dornhege. Efﬁcient extensible path planning on 3d
terrain using behavior modules. Proc. of the Europ. Conf. on Mobile
Robotics (ECMR), 2013.
[23] X. Yu, J. Wang, W. Chen, and H. Wang. A map accessibility analysis
algorithm for mobile robot navigation in outdoor environment. In
Proc. of Intl. Conf. on Real-time Computing and Robotics (RCAR) ,
2019.
[24] S. Singh, R. Simmons, T. Smith, A. Stentz, V . Verma, A. Yahja, and
K. Schwehr. Recent progress in local and global traversability for
planetary rovers. In Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics &
Automation (ICRA), 2000.
[25] M. Daily, J. Harris, D. Keirsey, D. Olin, D. Payton, K. Reiser,
J. Rosenblatt, D. Tseng, and V . Wong. Autonomous cross-country
navigation with the alv. In Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics
& Automation (ICRA) , 1988.
[26] D. D. Fan, K. Otsu, Y . Kubo, A. Dixit, J. Burdick, and A. Agha-
Mohammadi. Step: Stochastic traversability evaluation and planning
for risk-aware off-road navigation. Proc. of Robotics: Science and
Systems (RSS), 2021.
[27] P. Fankhauser and M. Hutter. A universal grid map library: Imple-
mentation and use case for rough terrain navigation. Robot Operating
System (ROS) The Complete Reference (Volume 1) , pages 99–120,
2016.
[28] J. Liu, J. Xiao, H. Lu, Z. Zhou, S. Lin, and Z Zheng. Terrain
assessment based on dynamic voxel grids in outdoor unstructured
environments. In Chinese Control Conference (CCC) , 2022.
[29] H. Hoppe, T. DeRose, T. Duchamp, J. McDonald, and W. Stuetzle.
Surface reconstruction from unorganized points. In Proc. of Annual
conference on computer graphics and interactive techniques , 1992.
[30] J. Petereit, T. Emter, C. W. Frey, T. Kopfstedt, and A. Beutel.
Application of hybrid a* to an autonomous mobile robot for path
planning in unstructured outdoor environments. In Proc. of German
Conf. on Robotics (ROBOTIK) , 2012.
[31] P. E. Hart, N. J. Nilsson, and B. Raphael. A formal basis for the
heuristic determination of minimum cost paths. IEEE Trans. on
Systems Science and Cybernetics , 4(2):100–107, 1968.
[32] T. Shan, B. Englot, D. Meyers, W. Wang, C. Ratti, and D. Rus.
Lio-sam: Tightly-coupled lidar inertial odometry via smoothing and
mapping. In Proc. of the IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (IROS) , 2020.
[33] D. Dolgov and S. Thrun. Practical search techniques in path planning
for autonomous driving. Ann Arbor, 1001(48105):18–80, 2008.
[34] C. H. Tong, D. Gingras, K. Larose, T. D. Barfoot, and ´E. Dupuis. The
canadian planetary emulation terrain 3d mapping dataset. Intl. Jour-
nal of Robotics Research (IJRR) , 32(4):389–395, 2013.
